There were scuffles and heated exchanges at the University of the Witwatersrand (Wits) on Monday as Israeli Apartheid Week 2017 began, with students gathering on the Great Hall piazza to voice their opinions.The Daily Vox witnessed fists being thrown, with clear tension between students who stood in solidarity with Palestine, and students who align themselves with Zionism. For the most part, however, the student protest against apartheid Israel was peaceful,with SASCO Wits deputy secretary, Nonkululeko Mntambo, leading the crowd in song in front of a wall constructed to represent the apartheid wall in Jerusalem.According to Rashaad Yusuf Dadoo, chairperson of the Palestine Solidarity Committee (PSC), an altercation broke out when students from the South African Union of Jewish Students (SAUJS) had set up an installation on the space that Wits promised to the PSC. The PSC activists tried to remove the installation, and private security got involved to break up the students. A similar incident happened on the campus last year, when the PSC had tried to set up on the space allocated to SAUJS.The annual Israeli Apartheid Week is a campaign that calls to attention the apartheid-like crimes that the state of Israel has committed and continues to enforce against Palestine and its people. During this week &#8211; held annually in February and March &#8211; a series of events is held in cities and campuses across the globe.Dadoo said the Palestinians have stood up and resisted and laid claim to the land despite facing probably one of the strongest armies in the world. As we gather here in the idea of solidarity, we acknowledge the Palestinian right to self-determination and the role of international solidarity. As students of a post-apartheid disposition, it s unfortunate that we can recognise and internalise the meaning of apartheid. As South Africans we understand the injustice perpetrated and institutionalised by an illegitimate government. As was carried out by the colonial white regime in South Africa. Mntambo, addressing the crowd, invoked Nelson Mandela s call to never again let the crimes of apartheid be repeated. We have denied Zionist money before, we have denied Zionist progression. We have denied Zionist strands of nationalism before. And we are gathered again to say never again. She said Palestine has a right to exist, and that Palestine will be fought for by all means necessary . Comrades, let us not reconsider our resolutions. We are the people of Palestine and the people of Palestine are us. We are Hamas and Hamas is us. We are the reborn Umkhonto we Sizwe and the reborn Umkhonto we Sizwe is us. She said they will take Palestine once more. Not because we decided we feel great, not because of some cultural alignment we feel, not because we were given the Jewish state by some UN resolution that only two countries recognise. We are going to take it because it is ours. The brown people of the world have had enough because we have [borne] the brunt and will bear it no more. And if we must fight, we will fight. If we must die, we will die. When we are dead, they will sing about us, they will talk about us. BA law student, Siphosihle Mbuli, 18, said she is standing in solidarity with Palestine. Besides the political and actual issue, what I believe is what s happening over there is unjust and inhumane and shouldn t even be happening regardless of the issue. Mass killings and the conflict shouldn t be occurring and there should be negotiations Before you understand the issue, you should be on the side of humanity where you re trying to bring &#8211; not even peace &#8211; but assurity to another human that their life matters regardless of their religion, their practice or where they live. Dadoo said that while the South African Union of Jewish Students (SAUJS) on campus promotes a very pro-Zionist, pro-Israel position, the issue is with that of Zionism being an ideology of domination. It has been used to legitimise the expansion of the state of Israel by making claim to the land as theirs. It s the same dangerous entitlement that white South African have, when all white people decided to colonise Africa and the rest of the world. So on that basis we find it hard to consolidate any kind of meaningful engagement with them. We don t oppose their event. We promote our own event. We oppose the imposition of their event on us. Dadoo said that the university enacts a double standard because when SAUJS does it they ll say, Let s wait for three hours, let s discuss it with management and we ll come to an amicable solution . When we did it [last year], there was an immediate resort to violence. We condemn the university s subjective application of rules. Wits spokesperson Shirona Patel said the university is still awaiting a response from campus control regarding the use of security on Monday.Students from SAUJS declined to comment to The Daily Vox.Additional reporting by Shaazia Ebrahim and Fatima Moosa. Featured image by Shaazia Ebrahim.