The Palestinian embassy in South Africa has refuted the claim by opposition party, the Democratic Alliance (DA), that its leader, Mmusi Maimane had planned trip to Palestine while visiting Israel, saying it only became aware of the visit through South African media.Last week, Maimane&#8217;s spokesperson, Mabine Seabe, spoke to Redi Tlhabi on Radio 702, defending (or attempting to defend) the DA leader&#8217;s decision to visit Israel and pose in that picture with the country s Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu.Maimane on &#8216;fascinating&#8217; trip to Israel while ambassador punts on SA government radioThe interview went really badly, as everyone quickly realised that Seabe was avoiding the real questions and using a weak defence that the visit was to look at the situation first hand, with both and Israeli and a Palestinian perspective .According to Seabe, the outrage against the DA has been one-sided. People have been focusing on the fact that we went to Israel when we have been to Palestine as well, to understand their grievances. It would be irresponsible for us to make the position and articulate the position without having all the facts on the table, he said.Seabe said that Maimane had met with the Israeli leader, and was meant to have also met Palestine s President Mahmoud Abbas, until he cancelled at the last minute. From the DA s perspective, this seems like bad luck, right? Well, the cancellation makes more sense when you realise that no meeting with Palestinian officials had actually been planned after all. What was Seabe saying about being irresponsible?Shame, Abbas didn t even know what was happening. Seabe said that though Maimane hadn t met Abbas due to the cancellation , he had spoken to officials of the Palestinian Authority (PA). But the embassy statement contradicts that by stating that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had said that none of the PA officials had actually met or planned to meet Maimane.According to the statement: Media reports and statements by the DA delegation make no reference to actual names of Palestinian Authority officials or what titles/offices they hold. What do we make of this? An official statement by the Palestinian embassy refutes the official statement by the leading South African political opposition party. Is the DA enjoying and succumbing to the world s political descent into a post-truth reality? Or did someone just mess up planning the trip? Either way, the DA&#8217;s not looking good right now.