The students who were excluded by Rhodes University for participating in the #RUReferenceList protest in 2016 said the university was unjust in its decision to do so. A #RhodesWar hashtag broke out on social media after two students from the university received lifetime expulsions for protesting against rape culture on campus. Another Black Womxn who was purged by Rhodes University for being a student activist. For particularly #RUReference list. Asked to be anonymous. There’s a war at Rhodes against Womxn… Against Black Womxn. We can’t keep quiet  #RhodesWar pic.twitter.com/jxcskIpxC0 — Babes Womzabalazo (@NalediChirwa) December 11, 2017  At the time of the protest, the university had been granted a temporary interdict against protesting students who vandalised campus property, kidnapped and assaulted those who were accused of sexual assault. One of the two students, Yolanda Dyantyi, who was doing her final year, said she was excluded two exams away from obtaining her undergraduate degree. “I was excluded on the 17th of November and was charged with kidnapping, assault, insubordination and defamation,” she said. Applying at other institutions may be difficult for her as her transcript has been endorsed with an unsatisfactory conduct record. Dyantyi also said that she tried to submit a letter of appeal but the university barred her from doing so. “I am also on NSFAS, and I am obviously expected to pay back the money, when I do eventually get a job, because I used it at the three years I was at Rhodes,” she said. he felt like she was not afforded a fair trial. “I didn’t even testify, they said the hearing was taken too much time,” she added. Another student, Simamkele Heleni, said the university filed an interdict against for participating in the protest. “I was excluded at the end of last year, the letter was dated December [2016] but I only received it in May 2017 and it stated that I had a pending disciplinary hearing but only should I return to Rhodes,” she said. Heleni said she is struggling to apply at other universities because her transcript states she has a pending disciplinary hearing. The #RUReferenceList was an anti-rape protest to raise about violence against women on campuses. Since the student outcry against rape culture at the university, two students were permanently excluded and one student was excluded for 10 years for rape. Some have criticised the university for employing what they believe is a double standard. So funny that Rhodes expels women protesting rape culture but rapists get a slap on the wrist #RhodesWar — Blaccesory (@Rossey_RoRo) December 11, 2017  More students who claim to be excluded for their participation during the protest came forward to share their experiences. #RhodesWar After accepting defeat, I begged Mabizela to release my results, to just give me my degree. Frames 1&2 are his response, 3&4 are SWORN AFFIDAVITS from my lecturers. He lied! They collected all my scripts and destroyed them! pic.twitter.com/iUriJfEjOT — #RhodesWar (@Nox_Mfocwa) December 11, 2017  Noxolo Mfocwa was also excluded in her final year in 2016 and has been barred from going back to Rhodes for three years. She said she was charged with alleged assault and bringing the university’s name into disrepute. Mfocwa claims that the university has been targeting students who active in the #RUReferenceList and #FeesMustFall movements and looking for ways to exclude them. “They could have just given me a more lenient or rehabilitated sentence. They could have made me do community service in the months preceding graduation, but all they decided was that I wasn’t going to graduate,” she said. Raped at Rhodes University 4th of August, 2017. Reported my case and applied for extended Leave of Absence (and had to deregister) bcs I couldnt cope. They said they can only investigate once I reregister as a student in 2018. I’m not rgoing back. Forget it #RhodesWar — Panda (@Zarbznguni) December 12, 2017  Rhodes University hates women. It especially hates black, vocal, activist women. It hates the disruption of white and male power #RhodesWar — Sid. (@ABGqomo) December 11, 2017  In a press statement released by the university, it dismissed claims that the students were excluded for taking part in the protest. It said that the matter had been heard in the high court, the Supreme Court of Appeal and the Constitutional Court, and that its decision to expel the students was based on the courts’ findings that they carried out “unlawful acts” that “made serious inroads into the rights and liberties of others”. Rhodes Exclusions a Result of Criminality, No Student Excluded for Protesting pic.twitter.com/C4JUzchhch — Rhodes University (@Rhodes_Uni) December 12, 2017  The deputy minister of higher education Buti Manamela said on Tuesday that he would look into the claims made by the excluded students. I’m made aware of the expulsion of students who protested against Rape by Rhodes University. I’ve asked for a full report & will be doing all to advance the education of our youth — DM Higher Education (@ButiManamela) December 12, 2017 