It’s that time of the year where most people can’t wait to escape Joburg, especially if you’re not originally from these parts and you just want to go home. However, not everyone gets the chance to leave Jozi and flee to sunny Durbs or the Mother City for the December holiday. If you’re stuck in Joburg for the holidays, The Daily Vox team rounds up things to do for this year’s Jozi staycation. 1. Cinderella on Ice
Ice shows are something that seem to signify Christmas and the holidays. As much as we’ve got blazing temperatures in Johannesburg, we’re not averse to a bit of snow-covered escapism.This year the world-famous Imperial Ice Stars will be presenting Cinderella on Ice to audiences in Johannesburg and Cape Town. The Johannesburg show runs from the 6th of December 2017 until the 6th of January at the Teatro at Montecasino. Be prepared to be transported to another world as the skaters enthrall you with their amazing talents. It’s also the perfect holiday activity for the entire family. 2. Go see the lights at Emperors Palace and Melrose Arch
This year, there are at least two family-friendly light installations in Joburg. The Garden of Lights, running until 3 January 2018 at Emperors Palace is a celebration of all things festive. It has a winter wonderland, featuring Santa and his elves and a magical fairy, and is a grand yuletide adventure. Meanwhile, also until 3 January, the streets of Melrose Arch will lined with baubles, fairies, a giant teddy bear, stars, reindeer, toys, gifts and more – enough to excite the little ones and bring out your inner child. 3. A Christmas Carol at Montecasino
On at the Pieter Toerien Studio Theatre at Montecasino from the 29th of November 2017 until the 7th of January 2018, A Christmas Carol is sure to be a delightful holiday treat. The Crewworks are responsible for putting on this Charles Dickens’ classic which looks at Ebenezer Scrooge as he is confronted by the ghosts of Christmas Past, Present and Future. This is another holiday activity that is perfect for the entire team. 4. A Piece of Work exhibition
If you’re looking to embrace your inner hipster this holidays, why not attend an art show? A Piece of Work is a group exhibition featured unique arts by a variety of artists from the David Krut Workshop. The artworks are all variations of the monotype process which are one-of-a-kind printed images. The show is one from the 16th of November until the 30th of January and it sure to be a fascinating experience. 5. Janice Honeyman’s Snow White
Fancy a trip to the theatre this holidays? Why not go and check out the Snow White pantomime on at the Mandela Theatre from November 3rd until December 23rd. The show is an experience with the classic story being brought to life with amazing sets, beautiful costumes and lots of comedy. It’s the perfect outing to go with friends, family or even alone, and is sure to beat the holidays blues that can sneak up on you. 6. Afropunk
One of the biggest events to happen his year, Afropunk is set to take Joburg by storm as we ring in the New Year. Taking place on the 30th and 31st of December at Constitution Hill, Afropunk is a gathering of singers, dancers and artists in the celebration of music culture. This year’s special guest will be Solange Knowles while South African artists will include Nakhane, Urban Village and Black Motion. It’s the one New Year’s bash that you do not want miss.