There are scholarship opportunities floating around all the time – but finding one for which you fully meet the criteria and most suits your programme of study can sometimes be tricky. We will build on and keep updating this list – you never know when you may find something that suits where you are or where you want to be. You have nothing to lose. Get applying! 1. Government of South Africa Bursaries in Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries – 2018 The Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (DAFF) offers comprehensive bursaries to South African students pursuing degrees in the critical scarce skills needed in the agriculture, forestry and fisheries sectors. In keeping with its duties to oversee the agriculture industry and ensure access to “safe, sufficient and nutrious food” for the population, DAFF offers bursary funding to undergraduate and postgraduate students – up to PhD level – for the 2018 academic year. For undergraduate studies, certain programmes are only available at certain institutions: The bursary will cover tuition, accomodation, meals, and a monthly stipend. Successful applicants will also be allocated a mentor, and will be placed as an intern in the relevant industry or research institution. The application deadline is September 30, 2017. For a full list of supported academic programmes, and application forms, click here. 2. Harry Openheimer Fellowship Award – 2017 The Oppenheimer Memorial Trust was established in 1958 to invest in education and related fields. The Harry Oppenheimer Fellowship is the Trust’s most prestigious award, and is awarded to excellent scholars to enable them to undertake a programme of cutting edge and internationally significant work. The Trust calls for applications – from institutions or individuals – nominating South African residents who are well established in their field and with a track record of sustained intellectual engagement. Candidates should demonstrate a commitment to building capacity within South Africa. The application deadline is October 31 2017. For more information about criteria and submission procedures, click here. 3. Chilean International Cooperation Agency (AGCI) Nelson Mandela Scholarships – 2018 The AGCI is awarding Masters scholarships to citizens of South Africa, Mozambique and Angola, studying in the following fields: Astronomy, Agriculture, Aquaculture, Energy, Management of Public Policies, Health, Environment, and Mining. Conducted in Spanish, the scholarship programme aims to “contribute to the training of advanced human resources”. The scholarship will be awarded for the 2018 academic year, beginning in March, and students must be enrolled on a full-time basis. The scholarship covers an immersion Spanish language course, return airfare, tuition costs, and a monthly stipend of CLP 500 000. The scholarship covers up to 24 months of study, and priority will be given to applications from public officials or academic officials from an officially recognised South African university. The deadline for this award is October 31 2017. For more information, click here. 4. Snorri Sturluson Icelandic Fellowship in Humanities – 2017 The Snorri Sturluson Fellowship is awarded to “international writers, translators and scholars” studying a subject within the humanities in Iceland. The minimum timeframe for the fellowship is three months. The purpose of the scholarship is to provide students an opportunity to learn more about Hungarian culture and language. The amount awarded depends on the living expenses in Iceland and travel to and from the country. Applicants receive preference if they’re from Africa, Asia, Eastern and Southern Europe, Oceania and Latin America. The application deadline is Oct. 31, 2017. For more information, click here.